seeing these beautiful faces every week that passes by being far away from yourselves is a suffering and it's a cause of misery and
i really mean that may allah allow our happiness and our growth to be found in these places i've
always wondered what it was that made those people who
come before us so superior in their ethic so dedicated in their worship
how was it that their iman was so formidable so consistently regular and strong
how was it that when they found their way to a sin they quickly found their way back to repentance how was it that they were so tough and resilient in the
face of doubts and temptations how was it that their attachment to dunya was so much lesser than some of us today
what was the secret that made them so different and i tried to investigate an answer to this question and i came across a
profound statement by
he said that it wasn't abundant prayer and fasting that caused abu bakr
to be superior to all of those around him it wasn't that he said it was something that settled in his
heart so what was it that settled in his heart i'm still trying to under understand
what is this gem this jewel that made him stand out this secret i investigated a little bit further
and i came across a second statement mentioned by abdullah ibn mubarak in praise of imam malik listen to what he said and compare it
with what you just heard earlier he said i have never in my life seen someone who
rose to fame like imam malik however he didn't have that much extra
prayer and fasting perhaps he had a secret
so again this topic of secret comes up a second time what is this distinguishing reality the secret that sat in their hearts
the answer is still not clear i read a little bit further and i came across a third statement mentioned by abdullah ibn mubarak
in praise of a man called ibrahim what does he say about him he said
he is a virtuous man and he has many secrets so for the third time
the topic of secrets is coming up again so my eagerness rockets are high sky high trying to
understand what is this secret what is this jewel that made them so distinct and separated them from us
then finally i cross paths with a hadith that solved the riddle
the hadith which narrates in his on the authority of abdullah ibn
that the messenger
he said the righteousness of the first generation of muslims was due to the fact that they had two qualities
minimalism renunciation of dunya it didn't settle in their hearts minimalism
how do we translate japan certainty the righteousness of the early
generations was due to what they're keen their certainty in allah and the promises of their lord
and he said and the latter generation of muslims they will be plundered into ruins because of what
stinginess and false hopes so you're this was from the many secrets that sat
in the heart of amir ul muhammadin abu bakr and imam malik and ibrahimovic as we just heard
this was the secret above and beyond many other attributes they're keen their certainty in everything that has come
from allah and everything that they shall meet in the future when they die this is what we want to speak about
on this evening this is the queen that was praised and spoken about by abdullah
who said
the relationship of yatin to iman faith is just like the relationship of your soul to your body
and he said this is what they pursued this is what they competed over and this is what they rolled up their sleeves in
pursuit of it was yakin and imam ibn al-qayim he also said about
yakim that it is certainty it is the reality of being a sundeer
remember what bakri abdullah said earlier praising abu bakr he said that his secret he had a secret
and here is saying that abu bakr became a siddiq or the nature of siddique which is the highest station you can humanly attain
after the station of prophethood and above the station of matadam is the station of siddhiriya he said the
reality of being a sabir is having so what is yakim
if we wanted to put our finger on it and try to define it what is it we've loosely translated it so far as being
certainty first of all before we enter into a definition dear brothers dear sisters we are to realize that knowledge
is of levels you have the first level of knowledge you can say it's the bottom of the food chain
the weakest form of knowledge the scholars they call it means delusion
that's like when you're around say 25 sure of something then you go a little bit further up
and you reach this stage called check doubt that's when you're around 50
sure of something you move a little bit further up and then you have this station called one
is when you're around 75 percent sure of something then you reach the very top of the pyramid
this is called yakin certainty and that is when you are what 100 percent
sure of something so just as an entry into this topic realize
knowledge is of levels and we are speaking about what level of knowledge this evening the very highest form of knowledge not
every muslim will attain to perfection during his or her life but we strive to work towards it when you are 100
sure of something now having understood where jacquin sits on the pyramid of knowledge i share with you a definition of jaquin
from a technical perspective what are we talking about here al-juned baghdadi he said
he said certainty is the settling of knowledge did he say the acquisition of knowledge the
learning of knowledge the writing no he said it is the settling of knowledge within the heart
such that it doesn't change it doesn't alter and it doesn't disappear
so a muslim who has yakin in allah and everything he has come with
is a muslim whose certainty has dispelled from his heart every
shadow of doubt and every anxiety of confusion and enlighting within it a certainty
whereby you have no more hesitation in what you believe it is the settling of knowledge
when it resides in your heart you see if i was to tell you now that
mahmoud has arrived from london you will believe me because i hope i am a credible
authority or a source in your life then if somebody else comes and contradicts that statement
you may fall into doubt if however say five other people come and corroborate what i had said
your level in knowledge grows if however tens upon tens of people come
to you from different languages and different ages and different races to say the same thing that i had just told you
and substantiate it through these multiple sources of transmission such that it is impossible that they have all
collaborated and unified upon a lie then you reach the highest stage of knowledge and this is
called the akeem that is certainty so al-junaid how did he define alyakim
he said it is the settling of knowledge in the heart such that it doesn't change
it doesn't alta and it doesn't disappear from your heart there was a second definition given by
one of the predecessors he says is when you
witness the unseen through your iman it is when you witness
the world of the unseen through which i through your iman that's your keen certainty
so the same way that the eyes in your head that provide you sight enable you to see the happenings
of the physical world the eye that is in your heart which is called yakin your insight allows you to
see the metaphysical world so you live your life in a station whereby the events of paradise and hell and the
bridge and the day of judgment and the realities of the grave are unfolding before your very eyes even as you buy and sell and wake up and sleep and trade
and inter-intermingle with family you are seeing it but with what i the eye of
certainty so it is the witnessing of the unseen through the eye of iman
this is japan bearing this in mind after introducing the topic to you
and giving you the levels of knowledge and showing you that yatine sits at the very top of the levels of knowledge and
giving you two definitions of yakin i want to share with you also the levels of yaqin
so just because jacquin sits at the top a certainty we can still say that jacquin in of
itself at the top has levels does anyone know of those levels by the way
um yeah did you hear that the first of them
is what yeah the knowledge of certainty
and then you have the second which is the eye of certainty and then you have the third which is
the truth of certainty all three are mentioned in the quran by the way to demonstrate
if i say to you i have in my hand beneath the table a cup of water
and you believe it and i'm not going to lie and maybe several other people tell you the same thing carlos do you reach a state of what yeah certainty there is definitely
a cup of water beneath the table this is what stage the first of them the knowledge of certainty
then if i was to show you the cup you now reach the second level this is
i of certainty then if you were to take the cup and you were to drink from it you've now experienced the water with
some of your senses this is the truth of certainty and allah
alludes to all three of those levels in the quran the first two in surah allah
know if you were to know the knowledge of certainty
you shall see the hellfire then you shall see it with the eye of
certainty so the knowledge and eye of certainty they are both mentioned in suratu then you are left with the third of those which is the truth of certainty
that is mentioned in surah suratu
where allah says this is indeed the truth of certainty
yes these are the three levels what is the difference between them in terms of knowledge
uh in terms of certainty they are the same all three of those levels are the same
in the sense that you are certain there is no doubt it's not like one is more certain than the other you're just as certain by
knowing something that is certain or seeing something that is certain or experiencing something that is certain all of this constitutes as
knowledge of certainty according to us as muslims and we can demonstrate this i mean
how do you know of paradise in hell you haven't seen it and you certainly haven't experienced them
yet you are absolutely certain of their existence the same way you are certain that it is
you who is speaking but you haven't seen them this is knowledge of certainty it's come to you
from an undeniable source so you are certain in fact he said something really beautiful here
he said if the veil between me and allah
subhanahu wa'ta'ala was to be removed it wouldn't increase me in certainty ajiba
if the veil was to be removed and i was to see him subhanahu ta'ala it wouldn't increase me in faith it wouldn't increase me in certainty in other words
the knowledge of yakkin is so high that i don't need any other proof
and some of the predecessors they said janna they said i have seen paradise and
hell first hand they said how he said i saw them both through the eyes of the
prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi and he saw them and as another he said that
the fact that the prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam saw paradise and hell with his eyes that is a more of a reliable source than if i was to see
them with my own eyes because my eyes may play tricks on me whereas his eyes may never deceive him
subhanallah so this is the knowledge of certainty if the veil was to be removed it
wouldn't increase me in the attain allah but then you have the second which is what the eye of certainty
and this is how we understand dear brothers dear sisters prophet ibrahim's request to see allah giving life to the dead
what was the request of ibrahim he said my lord
show me how you give life to the dead does ibrahim not believe of course he believes
the knowledge of certainty is enough for him of course he believes allah said to him adam took me don't you believe he said bella of course i believe my lord.
but what was ibrahim alaihissalam actually requesting exactly he was requesting a transfer
from the knowledge of certain to the eye of certainty yes and then you have
the truth of certainty the experiencing of a matter so we are now studying for example about paradise and hell and we
are absolutely certain of their existence in fact our whole life is defined by paradise and hell our behavior that's the knowledge of
certainty then on the day of judgment paradise in hell will be exhibited you
will see them this is now the eye of certainty then eventually people will be given entry into paradise or thrown into hell and
they will experience it with all of their senses this will be the truth of satan we ask allah to give us the certainty of paradise
allow us to experience it now so this is a definition of yaqeen and
these are the levels of yatin and now we are to share maybe the real uh important part of this
short darts and that is what is awarded to the people of yakreen what is given to them
what do the fruits of this beautiful tree look like when this tree blossoms what can you expect in your dunya before
your hereafter if you become a man a woman of yakin and it is within reach
as we shall find out at the very end number one the people of japan experience a light
that dawns upon their heart almost a physical tangible light that they experience
brings with it subhanallah a flare of light that dispels within it dispels from the heart all of the shadows of doubt and
hesitation and the anxieties that come with confusion doubt check it's a heat that inflames the heart and
causes it pain and movement and turbulence yatheen on the other end is the greatest soothing agent that may
feature in your heart that allows it to rest and to rely upon allah and be content with allah and to be happy with the decrees of allah and to be to be
fearful of allah and hopeful in allah and to long and young for allah and to be content with all of his decrees
the most in spirited people they are the people of yaqin with this light that has dawned upon their hearts
even if you are experiencing the bleakest and darkest of circumstances allow me to demonstrate dear brothers and sisters
look at someone like this he said during the peak of his trial
during the fought when he was imprisoned experiencing physical torture persecution and threaten threatened with execution and exilement
sheikhou islam he would say to his students within the cell
the size of the cell in thanks to allah for this blessing that he has endowed me with it wouldn't be enough to thank him
and he would say from behind the confines of prison he would say i'm not the imprisoned one don't you worry about that
he would say he would say that the real imprisoned
one is the one who has been imprisoned by his desires and the real captive is the one who has
been captivated from the remembrance of allah that's the captive not me and
when they threatened him that you're going to be exiled to alexandria and we may follow it up with your execution what did he say
ee the light that dawns upon the heart of the one who is certain in allah
he said if you kill me this is martyrdom for me can at least
if you exile me that's me enjoying tourism in the land of allah now
and if you had exiled me to cyprus i would invite their people to islam and they would respond to my call
were in habasuni and if you keep me detained here in the prison don't you worry this will be my place of worship
and then he said amazing words he said i am just like a sheep
wherever i fall i will fall on cotton wherever i fall i fall on cotton you push me face first or you push me to
my back or you push me to my sides i will fall on the cotton just like a sheep it will always roll on cotton i'm comfortable
should you kill me exile me i will i'm a comfortable man because i have certainty and i am at
peace with my lord do you see my brothers my sisters what would you say the people of yakin the first thing they enjoy is a
is a light that dawns upon the heart and it dispels with it all of those shadows and darknesses and hesitations and turbulence and allows it to settle this
is happiness to be certain he would say in allah
has placed happiness and relief in certainty and contentment in allah subhanahu wa
that's number one light that dawns upon the heart number two the people of yakin they are taken as guides do you worry that maybe your life is
coming to an end without you maybe putting forward the type of deeds that you wished and you envisioned you would put for yourself
do you wish that people will take you as an inspiration such that what they do after your death continues to be a continuation of your legacy and
accredited to your scales don't you wish to be taken as a guide in the matters of to be an imam in the religion even
though you may not be leading salah this is the meaning of imam are to be taken as a guide to lead people in
two ingredients are required allah subhanahu wa allah he said in surah
we made from them imams guiding by our command when they were patient and when they had
yaquin in our science so what was the formula two-part recipe
patience and what what does it create imam in the deen
when patience marries certainty they conceive a child called imam leadership in their religion
by the way it's perfectly logical why these two ingredients are needed for your leadership and why you will be taken as a guide in
your family in your household and at work and across the other side of the road why those two because you see what are the greatest
temptations and tests that man may experience in his life there are two what are they
subbu heart doubts in their religion and shahawat carnal desires haram appetites
what does patience do it closes which of those doors patients closes thee
the sheikh that desires and then what door does that close shubu has your certainty close the
doubts and a person who has those two doors closed in his life deserves to be taken as imam in their religion
so what is awarded to the people of yakin we said light that dawns upon their heart may allah give us this light and allow us to experience that happiness
number two you are taken as a guide in the religion when you are certain of allah and his religion number three
unlocks enormous stores of motivation and power maybe you've noticed
man may come and give us off a full-fledged course about da'wah and inviting people to islam and activism
yet where is the brother or where other brothers when it comes to salah where are they when it comes to quran
and like this where are they the knowledge was there but the application was not there how come
the vehicle was missing the vehicle that takes a person from knowledge
to application that vehicle is called uh imam ibn al-qayyim he said in his
book he said he said knowledge
employs you but yakin is what carries you knowledge employs you
is what carries you how is it that you may find two individuals
both of whom have memorized the exact same narration say on uh sadaka the virtues of giving in charity he's memorized 10 and he's memorized 10.
but when it comes to application they're so different individual a barely gives any sadaqa maybe it's just
one year to another to give his zakah if that then you have individual b who has a direct debit going out of his
month every single month without fail how come jakeem they've both been employed by knowledge
but what carried them to application or prevented the other it was the certainty how certain are you or is there doubt
you've memorized the narrations you're not too sure whereas the other one when he puts his hand in his pocket and he takes out the fiber or the tenor and he puts it in the
hand of the fakir or the mesquite or the one who needs the money he feels as if he is almost literally putting the money in the rich and divine hand of allah
that's certainty how is it that two people may memorize the exact same narrations say about the impermissibility of
usury interest they've both memorized the ayah where allah says
then will be if you don't detest if you don't stop taking riba
then take notice of war from allah and his messenger they both memorized it they both recite it well
however individual a unashamedly continues to use riba an individual bee abstains from it
vehemently fearfully even if it costs in his life and his business because he can almost
see himself we said the eye of the heart he could almost see himself being given the instruments of war a sword and a
shield on a day of judgment and is told go on fight allah wa we told you that the one who
takes riba will be at war with his lord he sees it through his yakin both were employed by knowledge
but what was it that carried one to action and kept the other one at home it was yakin certainty if i was to say to you there was a fire
outside or there was a fire at the back of the building in the kitchen and some of us go and some of us stay
that can only be explained by one thing whether you believe what i said or you don't you were employed by the knowledge i
gave you there's a fire some of you ran because you know you believe there's a fire you started to see the smoke other people stayed sat down
that can only be interpreted that you doubt what i said is there any other way to explain it
so when allah says this will bring you jahannam this type of dress will bring you the fire this type of business commerce will
cause you hell suffering in the grave but you stay sat down you don't move do you doubt the information
no or it could be that you do there is a lacking in the japanese and therefore the the vehicle has not has
not moved so what are we saying here we're saying that jake unlocks a huge amount of
inspiration and power to get up and pray and to fast and to give in sadaka and to improve your dress and your appearance online yakin invigorates your limbs to
do that it unlocks huge stores of motivation when you're certain that the outcome will be as you were
promised and that's why al-hasan al-basri he said
anyone who possesses the true yakin that is deserving of it with respect to paralyzed in hell what will happen
he will submit and he will be afraid he will be humbled and he will walk straight as a muslim
and he will limit himself doing good deeds until death meets him that's how that happens when what when you have truly a clean certainty in
paradise and hell it pushes you towards them jannah and it causes you to run away from hell that's what certainty should do
this is number one dear brothers number three number four the people of jakin
are awarded bravery courage by the way i don't speak to you here as a authority on the topic of
yaquin or any other of the features of the heart that we're addressing i am a student with you studying these topics hoping to grow with you allah consider
me just a conveyor some sort of sound machine and we intend to grow together i don't claim to have reached these heights not
even one percent the people of yakin are awarded immense amounts of courage
fear seems to be sapped from their hearts when they're certain of allah
he said men have walked on the face on the surface of the water through yaki and that happened during the time of abu bakr allah
this is the documented historical fact that during the ridda wars the wars of apostasy
sadim nabi pursued them and they made their way to bahrain and they didn't have with them their ships
and sad he made a dua and with him were the muslims and abu hurairah was part of that war and he documented the fact that they and
their horses walked on the face of the sea and they got to their enemies and came back victorious
and this is another documented fact he consumed poison when he went to iraq they said to him be careful khalid we fear that your enemies
may try to poison you with the poison of hera he said what type of poison they said this is one of them he said bring it
here bismillah consumed it and it did not harm him
and imam would have your comments on this by saying this is what it means to be honored by allah and this is the meaning of courage
what no don't try that at home it's tempting but don't try it at home
that is a man of yakin i'm gonna drink this and it's not gonna harm me like i'm certain so allah did not let him down
courage fearlessness and bravery and subhanallah i love the example of sheikh
al-islami allah pardon us maybe we mention his name a little bit too much at times we ask allah to protect us from hulu and exaggerations we don't intend that
i read in his biography that he met the king of the mongols at the time his name was khazan
and that's not an easy one and you know the foreign policy of the mongols it was not about you know the
voting and these type of things their currency their language that they recognize was just brute force brutality
and he's now speaking to kazan the head of them and kazan invites ibn taymi and his friends to his palace
for a meal and they all eat with the exception of the imam they said to him why aren't you eating he said why would i eat from your food
when all of this is food that you've stolen from the muslims and you cooked and you heated the food using the trees that you cut down from the lands of the muslims i can't touch
your food what did azan say he said imam would you make a prayer for me hajime
would you make a prayer he said yeah of course i'll make a prayer for you he raised his hands
and he said allah incarnated this slave of yours kazan
is fighting such that your word reigns supreme then help him and and aid him and support him but o allah if he is
fighting such such that his word will reign supreme and for the pursuit of worldly measures and to humiliate the
muslims and to dominate over the world then allah disgrace him and embarrass him and put an end to him once and for all
and interestingly kazan was going i mean i mean i mean
and the companions of sheikh islam were saying at that moment we were just covering ourselves with our clothes such that when his head comes flying off the
blood doesn't splatter on us and that that didn't happen so they left the palace of azan
and they said to him you what was that about like you almost got us all killed with that we are not going to accompany you
anymore he said yeah and i don't want to accompany you anymore off you go so they separated from sheikh islam ibn
taymi and they took their own path and there was a few loyalists that remained around the imam
the narrator of this incident his name is he said as for imam ibn taymiyah
many people began to hear that he was traveling the knights and the princess the the the princes and the dignitaries so they began to come from every
direction to be close to the imam and to see him and to ask allah for barakah in the hope of being near him and by the
end of it there was around 300 nights surrounding the shaykh islamic he said as for us who broke away from him we were looted by highway robbers
and they left us naked without clothes so courage the one who is giving
true certainty they are confident they are brave and they are willing to take risks because they know who controls the heavens and the earth and they are
certain of it may allah that's number four number five the people of yakin are
awarded with immense resilience upon the causes of truth what do we mean by that
the people of yakin certainty in allah they are the most immovable of his creation when it comes to truth
no shahwah carnal desire or appetite or subah doubt here and there is going to knock them off the path of islam
they are stationed upon their religion regardless of the circumstances that they may confront in life a difficult
husband wife a child who goes off the rails difficult financial circumstances whatever it may be they are planted in their place that's what yakin gives a
person and that's why when heraculous herakle the emperor of rome when he was interviewing abu sufyan who was still a
pagan at the time asking him about this man who claims to be a prophet in arabia prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam from a christian perspective he
wanted to know is this man truly an apostle from god so one of the questions he asked him was
do any of them leave their religion when they embrace it and abu sufyan who was still a pagan
said no none have left islam since they embraced it with him he said
that is the sign of true faith when its delight mixes with the heart that is the sign of true faith when it's
what its delight mixes with the heart you never leave it so they are not in and out of the
religion oscillating between iman and nifak they experience a turbulent moment at work or some sort of islamophobic slur
or abuse online or offline and then sheikh well i don't even know if this religion is true anymore
you haven't even been tested yet may sarah who was the jurist of morocco
subhanallah i never forget this incident he was a man who was a devout worshiper of allah
and he would complete the recitation of the quran once every single night in his room and one of those evenings it seemed as if he was now
on course for a grand honoring from allah and so as he was reciting and praying he saw
a light emanating from the wall allahu akbar a light emanating from that he heard a sound saying
enjoy my face i am your lord what did he do he goes get out of my face you cursed one
he spat right inside of the light how come how come
how come shabbat if a light comes in your room now you're going to think it's allah why did he spit in the light
because it was shaytan say it it was shaytan this is shaytan
yeah it's quite worrying shabbat yes so this is shaytan trying to throw him off the course of
iman and to tempt him to leave the religion to confuse him but who will realize this the people
of people of yakin so what does yaqin do it gives you resilience they are stubbornly upon the hack upon
the truth when he was about to be thrown into the boiling oil and he saw his friends being thrown in and returning as
as skeletons with no flesh in paja and he began to weep before his time
was was up and they said you're next to be thrown in they say why why you crying are you not willing to become a christian he said no i'm just crying
because i wish that i had ten souls that can die in this way for the sake of allah i'm sad that it's just the one that will have to be thrown in the oil for him who
can do that but a person of yakin certainty we ask allah to allow us to take yapi speeding up
another one of the gifts awarded to the people of japan is that the size of calamities are lessened in their eyes
the size of a musa calamity a travesty is diminished in their eyes
and i give you a very simple analogy and you will understand imagine a person who was impoverished
debt ridden pressured by a massive family that he is responsible for and he is stressed right down to his
core and then on one evening he receives a very welcome phone call
saying that your distant great grandfather has just passed away and there is no one to inherit him but you
it's a sum of around 10 million dollars but because of the size of the amount of the money it's going to take us about a year
to free up the assets and send it over to you now tell me about the type of motivation and happiness and the encouragement
that he will experience during this year during that year is he still not debt-ridden he is
is he still not responsible for a big family he is is he still not impoverished he is but what's changed what's made him so
happy the hope that it's going to end with something positive there is money at the end of the tunnel
that is exactly the analogy of a muslim with your pain no matter what calamity comes your way in your health
in your children in your reputation whatever it may be you stay in spirited and motivated right
and the calamity diminishes in your eyes how come because you have certainty that at the end of the tunnel there is light
there is anor the light that is allah there is jannah it's going to end with happiness and forgiveness of sins it won't continue forever
and that's why we are taught to
that will lessen in our eyes the calamities of life give us yaqeen that will lessen in our eyes the calamities
of life that's what certainty does the last of the ones i wanted to share with you before i help us find a way to attain yaklin
is the eviction of despair there is no room for despair yes in the heart of the one who was saturn
and i just want you to imagine now the emblem or the silhouette of your nebula and they're standing at the gates of
mecca trying to find their way back into his city that he was exiled from he left mecca secretly making his way to
ta'if when mecca had rejected him in the cruelest of way only to go to atla if to invite them to islam and they would also
reject him in the cruel list of ways and now he's coming back to mecca because he has nowhere else to go
and zade nuharitha he says to him o messenger of allah how are you intending on entering back into mecca whilst they had exiled you from it what
did he say these are the words of yaqin he said
is going to provide relief from what you are seeing and allah is going to support his prophet and he will cause his religion to prevail
when did he say this as he stands outside of the gates of mecca with his ankles bleeding because of the wounds he sustained at a life
at a time when he had lost his wife khadijah his internal lines of defense and he'd lost abu talib his external lines of defense and his city or his
tribe of hashim had experienced a grueling embargo for three years that killed some of them
and he went to al-qaeda to invite them to islam and they greeted him in the worst way that a human could greet another let alone a prophet from god
and now he is standing at the gates of mecca not knowing how to go back inside but where is he supposed to go and in
that context he said oh zade allah is going to provide relief so the next time you see
heartbreaking scene coming to us from china the uyghur muslims or hashem who are suffering now in the cold or yemen who
are suffering with suffering with hunger right all the future travesties that may be heading our way you remember those words
and you remember that the one who is certain in allah there is no room for despairing his or her heart i will leave you brothers and sisters in
the last maybe 10 minutes that we have together by suggesting a plan of action
for those of you who like the idea of jaquin what is it in it for us we've understood this how can we attain it i'm going to
share with you perhaps five very quick points the first of them take note of this brothers and sisters and this really is when we prove to ourselves
that we are here in the nested with the intention of action not just pure entertainment or something to do on the seven o'clock
wednesday evening what to do for those who want to attain your clean starting with myself i share with you the first create a plan for
knowledge escape brothers and sisters from the dungeons of ignorance and make your way to the light and expanse of knowledge
and there is no excuse allah has removed any excuse from us in the 21st century in the era of the internet
create a plan of study if you're not sure ask somebody you trust to put you on a particular path
even if it is three years or five years start something even if it is not perfect or ideal start
something and finish it don't dip in and out don't change your mind a month in no no
no even if it is not ideal finish it and watch how you will begin to see that seedling of yakin becoming a tree
where its roots are deep inside of you of your the soils of your heart jacquin comes from knowledge remember what we said that yatrin is the highest part of
knowledge so it makes sense that we start with with what with knowledge here i want to suggest by
the way this is a small footnote a mission for some of you especially those arabic speaking brothers amongst
you to research the muhawr program the creator of the debater
program it's a three-year program finish it understand it and then give yourself maybe another two
or three years after that to reproduce it in the english language for our english speaking audience here in the west this will be a
great hasanah that you can present allah with on the day of judgment and it is one of the most formidable ways of strengthening a person's yakin that
program is phenomenal i haven't seen anything like it created as a project for those of you who speak
uh arabic a plan for knowledge is the first pathway to jaquin number two don't give an attentive ear to shubu hat doubts
you know the forums i'm talking about you know the internet websites i'm referring to you know the people i'm speaking about you know the books i am referring to stay away from them don't
listen to them by trusting yourself saying i can deal with this run away from it protect your yakin your certainty don't
read it and do what the predecessors did like ibn paw was when he saw saleh coming into the gathering and speaking about qadhar in a skeptical way theology
in a skeptical way he put his fingers in his ears and he said to his son put your fingers
don't listen to what he is saying plug your fingers in your ears because hearts awake hearts are weak
and you know what our nabi is whoever of you hears that the antichrist
has emerged run away from him distanced yourself from him because man will come to him thinking that he is a believer
and will end up following him as god because of the shubu had the doubts that he will come with so don't give doubt and attentive ear
and don't think too highly of your iman run away from them the same way you run away from toxic food number three
contemplation think and think and think until it
really hurts and thinking is not by using this turn it off
switch off the tv look outside when everyone is asleep and just think and trust that allah will take you
through your thoughts to a place of yaqin did you know that the heavens the earth the sun the moon the rivers the stars
the trees the mountains they have all been put in place in order for you to look at them to think about
them and then arrive at your team allah said in the land there are signs for people
of yakin and allah said about ibrahim
we showed ibrahim the wonders of the heavens and the earth so that he may be of those people of yakin certainty have
you used this open door masjid that is called our universe you will find yakin there think about it
listen to what allah said in surat the chapter which sheikh read in the first
allah is the one who raised the heavens without pillars that you see allah
according to an appointed term yudhabbir al-amr he conducts the affair you fast
he details the signs why you may attain certainty in the meeting
of your lord all of this therefore is for your contemplation don't miss it by gaping into your phone
look at allah look at what is in the heavens and
think about it deep and honest contemplation will take a person to the doorstep of tawhid the oneness of allah
look at someone like dean hamer who authors a book called the god gene saying that it is so natural
we are so dispositioned to believe in god that it is actually hard wired within our very gene to believe in god almighty
someone like ben collins a physicist and a scientist or a physicist and philosopher he said that if the initial explosion of
the big bang deferred in strength even in the smallest part of 10 to the
power of 60 the universe would have either collapsed onto itself or either it would have expanded too
rapidly and which would be too fast to form stars and he said in both ways it would be impossible to sustain human life
and they say that the chance of this happening is like someone shooting a bullet at a one inch target
from the distance of 20 billion light years away and hitting the mark so contemplation
just mere thought even without wahi revelation takes you to a good place and it takes you to the prophethood of
the prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam also companionship sit with the people of
yakin sit with the people of iman and see how your iman and your yakin uncertainty and allah will grow and i tell you about myself some of the
difficult times i experienced by allah all it was was a quick phone call to people who i hope are near their lord subhana wa ta'ala and much of those
things were dispelled from my heart sit with them find them this is a good gathering for us to be together in
foreign he said
that sometimes we would feel so afraid and we would begin to doubt and we would feel as if the world had
become so tight upon us but then we would go to our teacher sheikh islamiyah and merely looking at his face and
hearing his words and we find that those doubts are dispelled from our hearts and it changes into strength and yaqeen and
peace and tranquility with allah lastly dear brothers and sisters and i will leave you with this dua include it when you are asking allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala for the things you need ask him to give you yakin in a profound hadith and this will be the last for this evening he said
sallallahu alaihi
he said ask allah to give you well-being ask allah to give you well-being in your dua
because the greatest thing that a person can be given after yakin is well-being he said after
allah brothers and sisters my last remark i wanted to share with you really is
keep yourself busy keep yourself active as a muslim and just by doing that
you will find that you're clean you can keep it at bay and you can grow it your certainty in allah merely keeping yourself
void of activity bored waiting for the next netflix binge marathon you will find yourself necessarily
starting to doubt not because the doubts are strong but because your heart is empty so shaytan he says don't worry i have a few ideas
for you and there was a sister which one of our contemporaries he said kept coming to him with doubts and i would answer one question and she
would come with three more and i would answer that those three questions she would come with ten more it was just an endless cycle of doubts then i found a
problem that she was suffering with she had too much free time on her hands so i said to her sister i'm not going to
answer these questions today i have a task for you i'm going to give you three cassettes they were cassettes at the time and i want you just to transcribe them please
write them out let's transcribe them and she did that and he said instantly all of the doubts disappeared from her
hearts she never came back with another question so the problem was not the doubt the problem was what autumn
busy yourself with a program of activity if you don't know where to start ask a brother who is active or a sister my dear sister who is active and say can i
be part of this and watch just by virtue of you exercising your limbs working in the quarters of allah will allow your iman and your
yakin to grow just by virtue of being an active muslim we will stop here with allah
i think that's the one hour mark we ask allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to raise us to this level of japan
dear brothers bring yourself as close as you can to perfection and realize that none of us will attain it we ask allah subhanahu wa tala to bless us and our
families and our students and our children with the atlin and iman allah